i would say that this is a rare case
in which the title of this video the
title of this live stream
tells you a great deal about what you
need to know in terms the intellectual
background
bringing me up to inspiring me to hit
the record button
and record this statement okay
i have seen black pill discussion on the
internet i have seen red pill discussion
on the internet i have seen
the feminist critics of both the red
pill and the black pill
i saw the whole fascination with the
in-cell
subculture rise to its sickening
crescendo and come
crashing down to the ground in the last
few years and the fundamental
the fundamental thing of the 21st
century is that
issues and ideas and
dissatisfactions in life that people
used to take to the bar
they used to discuss drunkenly while
smoking cigarettes at a pub
or that they used to take to their
pastor they used to pour out in the
confessional
booth to a catholic priest or none who
probably didn't know what the hell to
say to them in response great person to
get love life advice from
go talk you want to know what to do with
your love life go talk to a priest at
church that's great
you know people are now coming out on
the internet and commiserating
and i think among the left-wing and
among feminists
there's this kind of sickening
assumption that the disappointed
broken-hearted people who come out on
the internet and ask for this kind of
advice
that they're insincere or that they have
bad motivations and i don't feel that
way about it at all
i think people are really authentically
genuinely brokenhearted genuinely
unhappy with their lives
and they're coming out to commiserate
they're coming out to ask for help and
advice
they're telling their own stories
they're listening to other people's
stories and they're trying to make
decisions
so that they can live a better life now
i would say this
especially about the black pill people
so we have
someone in the live audience now who
says that he or she is black-pilled
you can take a moment just tell us what
black pill means to you
this is my summary of what the black
hole means black pill means
they're people who are unhappy and they
believe they're always going to be
unhappy
they're like look these are fundamental
problems in their life they can't change
and they can't overcome now it's not all
that specific
some of those are people who say that
they're lonely and they're always going
to be lonely like that's the particular
kind of disappointment some of them are
people who say well look this is the
kind of
love and affection they were looking for
in life like this is the kind of
relationship they wanted
and they're never going to have it so
you know there's some other relationship
they can have but not what they really
wanted in life
not their fantasy not their dream you
know that's so that's the black pill is
going to be different things to
different people
like maybe some people especially or
stereotypically women
have met women and they had an idea of
the kind of man or the kind of husband
the kind of home they wanted to have
they had a fantasy
and then at some point they get black
pill because they realize they can't
have that
that doesn't mean they can't have sex at
all but it means they can't have the
particular kind of sex with a particular
kind of person that wanted to have the
particular kind of family the particular
kind of life
they wanted to pursue i think a lot of
people
even if we're just talking about this in
terms of sexuality and dating the black
pill
has to deal with them being
disillusioned with the education system
with career with what they thought their
life was going to be what they thought
was going to be meaningful and rewarding
with life
i'll say real briefly i'm not this video
is not especially autobiographical it's
not especially about my life experience
but i saw all this coming together in
the most dynamic way at cambridge
university england
there were all these relatively young
women i mean
a lot of these women were like 28 they
were women 28 29
30 31 so i'm saying young but i guess i
don't really mean it
i mean they're young compared to me now
i'm i'm in my 40s
but there were these women who who were
looking at the wall
as 21st century they were looking at the
wall they're really running out of time
right we used to say in the old days
back in the 1980s the clock is ticking
you know they could feel that big number
30 coming up
and they were so miserable and so
distraught because they got to cambridge
university
england and they found out the education
wasn't worth having
the career path they wanted to pursue
was either impossible to pursue or not
worth
succeeding in that all of that was
meaningless and this this fantasy they
had become
deeply committed to that when they got
to university as a 28 year old woman
that there would be these fascinating
highly intellectual
handsome brilliant witty hard-working
men
who would just be out to get them and
they would find this husband who would
take care of them for the rest of life
so they had
they had a fantasy but the type of man
and the type of marriage
and the type of life that would ensue
for them if only they could get into
this master's degree program at the
university or if only they could get
into this
phd program this university and guess
what
real disappointment ensues real black
pilling ensues this this use but in a
really meaningful sense they become
black belt and you know i think that's
something you have to address
quite separately from the so-called
in-cell phenomena
they're not in cells i mean the majority
of people are not in cells the majority
of people come to complain on the
internet and pour their hearts out
they're not in cells
they may still get laid once in a while
they may even have a long-term boyfriend
they may even have multiple long-term
boyfriends
but they're black-pilled because they're
broken-hearted they're disappointed
their future can never be what they want
to be
there is a sense in which they're
burdened with an intense
awareness that they can never be happy
that they can never be satisfied they
can never be
you know fulfilled i think a lot of
people live with that
i mean look me and melissa we have been
together for
four years we have both made tremendous
sacrifices to make this relationship
possible and to make this
relationship work the type of sacrifice
was very different we didn't make
the same sacrifices she made tremendous
sacrifices in her life
i made tremendous sacrifices in my life
now both of us could talk about
what we could have done what we could
have accomplished positively in the last
four years if we weren't together
melissa is now learning chinese think
about what a wonderful life she could
have she wasn't learning chinese i'm not
joking
like really you know she could be doing
something better with her during the
last four years
she couldn't sleep better at the time
right but it
means so much to each of us
just to be in a relationship with
somebody who appreciates
the things we care about and we
know it's rare so i woke up this morning
i was awake for about two hours before
doing this livestream we got about
six six o'clock in the morning uh local
time i got up at six o'clock in the
morning
and i was reading uh specifically i
might as well say the particular book
i was reading machiavelli and i was
reading polybius
this is politics of ancient rome ancient
greece
how it connects to democracy today
all right trust me trust me you can be
in a relationship with a woman who
doesn't understand or appreciate that
right now as i said melissa was busy
doing her own work
we didn't have any really deep
conversation but like at one point she
got up to go to the kitchen and i read
her a few sentences from what i was
reading
there is appreciation there is mutual
understanding there's mutual
motivation there right i'm not going to
talk about this at great length
but there is a sense of trying to live
up to
the positive expectations that other
person has of you and the positive
expectations you have yourself
where there's this positive feedback
loop that's there all the time
and melissa knows if she breaks up with
me she's a good-looking woman
she can get another man
she can get another man who watches ice
hockey she get another man who watches
football she get another man who maybe
plays mario 64.
you know what i mean like you know oh
you can oh you can get another man oh
the problem isn't being in cell the
problem is being black
the problem is melissa breaks up with me
how is she ever gonna find someone with
whom she lives this
kind of meaningful life this kind of
mutually motivating
mutually appreciative positive
profoundly positive life where you have
those values in common
where you know you you care about the
same things you're you know you're
pulling the same weight in the same
direction and look
i get it not everybody's an intellectual
right not everybody's
not everybody's this kind of
intellectual like let's say not
everybody's intellectual
and not it was this kind of emotion not
everybody is vegan among other things
right
not everybody ethically cares about the
things we care about nobody not everyone
cares about environmentally the things
we care about but
melissa can get another man she saw some
people right in to tell me melissa could
get a better looking man
completely true you get a real good
looking man who watches football
watches ice hockey and listens to gwar
yeah i showed up
gwar if you don't know you can get a
real good looking man who listens to
guar
that's not what she wants out of life if
i were twice as ugly as i am
she'd want me if i were twice as fat
she'd want me
seriously you know there's something
there are other things here that are
really positive
that you really appreciate about the
person and and my point is
being black-pilled like again i was
wasn't trying to make this like a
totally autobiographical video this is
kind of about you
not me it's kind of about the audience
you know i mean but being blackfield
has to do with giving up on that kind of
heart's desire so it has nothing to do
with being an incel right
you could be black-pilled as a man oh
god can i relate to oh
can i relate to this let's just say
you're at the university of toronto
you're at the quote unquote the best
university in canada
and there isn't a single other
intellectual male or female
you don't mean anyone else has the
slightest interest in their courses
somebody could respond to that by being
black pill and saying well the only type
of woman for me to sleep with here is a
bimbo
so therefore i'm just gonna sleep with a
whole bunch of bimbos you could be
having a sex life where you have sex
with a different woman every month like
you're having a really active
sex life which in my opinion is some
people say why not a different woman
every week
let's say it's 12 women a year let's say
you're going out romancing sleeping with
a different woman every month
you could respond to that by having a
sex life where you're doing huge numbers
but you're still black pill because
that's not what you wanted
right you've given up on everything you
want you have given up on pursuing
the kind of person you want to be with
you have given up on
becoming the kind of person you want to
be with you want to be
yourself i'll say that again you've
given up on pursuing the kind of person
you want to be in love with
and you have given up fashioning
yourself
into disciplining yourself into becoming
the kind of person you want to become
because you've been black pill you've
come to the conclusion you can never
have the life you desire you've never
had the life you wanted and your your
way of coping
your cope is to bang a bunch of
brainless strangers or some people you
don't really love and don't really
respect
and who don't really love you and
probably don't really respect you either
right so my point is you're being black
pill to something different from the
in-cell
experience you know oh here's an
interesting comment
one person wrote in to say guar was
great though
would you would you marry someone who
listens to guar i ask you
uh so somebody somebody asked is this
red pill [ __ ]
no it's it's the opposite i mean you
know i think actually the title of this
video even even makes it
clear you know like what we're talking
about here in some ways is
is white pill it's the opposite of the
black pill so i mean like my critique
my critique of red pill would probably
be a lot longer but like what i've said
positively about the black pill and to
some extent you could say this about the
red pole also is look
it's human nature you don't want to
complain people are heartbroken
people are disappointment people people
are disappointed
no edits keep rolling no take two no
take three
people are heartbroken people are
disappointed people get black-pilled and
people get repealed and people want to
come on the internet and share their
their feelings
okay so i'm not i'm not opposed to that
and a lot of feminists are like a lot of
feminists think this is evil just to
come out and say how heartbroken you are
and you know a lot of feminists and a
lot of left-wing politically correct
type people they're hating on this
and i'm saying no no there's something
meaningful however
where i really differ from the black
pill people are people is the question
of
what next what now positively
what are you going to do going ahead my
perspective on that is completely
fundamentally different i'm i'm white
pilled
i'm optimistic i'm positive as opposed
to being
hopeless and it's that positivity based
on nihilism that motivates me in a lot
of ways to come on the internet and talk
about these things try to share with
people
you know try to try to try to help other
people uh in this one
oh great well my number one fan is back
to to try to
try to troll man it's a hard working i
got one troll i got one
and we've got 47 people in the audience
24 thumbs up uh if you guys could give
it a thumbs up now it'll help other
people join while we're live streaming
it's no big deal but yeah
uh if we have 48 people in the audience
and we have 48 thumbs up
youtube is going to show this even the
more my own subscribers and a few more
people will join the crowd
maybe a few maybe a few people who uh
you know anyway
okay so look i don't mind i can respond
to some of these things i'm not going to
forget
what it is of what is i've got to say
here someone comments from the audience
quote
yeah but women only date men
with money these days women huh
that's a generalization about women like
you think you think you can't argue
against your own position i'm not i'm
not hating on you
like i know why you feel that way i know
like maybe the high school you went to
that's what was going on right tell me
did you go to a muslim majority high
school
muslim women or women is that how you
think what goes on in a
muslim culture you know there's probably
another high school in your city
that's muslim church so where i grew up
in canada there were
old jewish high schools there were all
muslim high schools
there were you know i just said we had
different high schools associated with
different ethnicities and religions
this is the you think all women
live and i really you know i'm sorry
it's totally cool for you to feel that
way or talk about the women you relate
to
if what you do is hang out at night
clubs certain kinds of nightclubs
meeting certain kinds of women i
understand you might feel that way you
know what i'm saying
but no it's not all women and just a
really brief digression here
back when i had a discord group i no
longer have a discord group but i still
have t-shirts
for the first time in many years you can
buy this t-shirt but hey
it's it's it's available now at
ballastyl.com
um but anyway this this t-shirts are
collectors and the new one it's the same
but as a v-neck
if you have the original it's round neck
by the way okay well i used to have a
discord
and i remember a guy came into the
discord and he said to me
look you're totally wrong about france
and i think he knew
i've been married to a french woman my
first wife was french so i've lived in
france and sometimes i know french
culture to a limited extent
and this guy said to me confidently said
no you're wrong what you don't realize
is that every single woman in france
by the age of 25 has had more than 50
sexual partners
like 50 minimum you're saying and i just
was
like oh really what was your major in
university
like let me guess were you maybe in
theater
there have been all these studies about
iq
and sexuality like intelligence tests
and sexuality there are tests of these
immigrants looking at different criteria
and then looking at how many sexual
partners people have per lifetime or how
many sexual partners have had in the
last five years
right and none of them have the
statistical
significance none of them have the
predictive power of asking
what is your major in university okay
if you were a chemistry major
if you were a math major
this predicts to a massive extent
how many sexual partners you've had and
what kind of sexual partners which
if you studied chemistry at university
of california berkeley
as opposed to being in the theater
department as opposed to being in the
film department
hey i'm sorry there are there are
differences and
my point is here with these
generalizations about women
you know with these generalizations
about men also
it's i'm not going to fold you i'm not
here to shut down i'm not here to say
like oh these guys who are
hashtag blackpill or hashtag red pill
that it's all bad or it's all wrong it's
all evil people need to come out and
talk about their experiences
but when this french guy was saying to
me this french guy was convinced that
each and every
woman in france by age 25 has had more
than 50 sexual partners the
french women and their teens in early
20s they just sleep around to this
massive extent
i had statistics and some studies quoted
about how many sexual partners they rely
he said oh no wherever you got these
statistics from they're totally wrong
i said tell me like have you walked past
a church lately
if you live anywhere in france how many
churches did we walk past just going
from our apartment to the grocery store
you know there are churches
everywhere so let me tell you let's
listen did you go
did you go to a religious high school oh
you know do you ever go inside the
churches and talk to people
those are women too they can't also
they're
also in these statistics you know this
particular guy
you you hang out with chain smoking
liberal arts left-wing intellectuals in
paris
okay you are hanging out with a
subculture within a subculture within a
subculture
and you're telling me all the women you
know in that subculture
have more than 50 sexual partners by age
25. okay
let me tell you something that's not a
representative sample that's not
everybody
instagram models are not everybody some
people are christians some people are
muslim
some people are ugly some people are
just chemistry majors or just
math majors who live their whole life in
that way and think about their sexuality
and their future and their youth and
studying what they do
in a different way so no you know you
really have to be honest with yourself
and others you really have to be
self-disciplined
in making generalizations about women
about men about
love about uh about sexuality this way
so by the way great great question i'm
gonna i'm gonna
um uh answer this uh uh quickly
oh hey uh two two great questions in a
row here
question one from monsieur garcia
in the past you've spoken about being
open to open relationships for
productive and meaningful reasons
have you with melissa or you with your
ex-wife in the past
acted on this had multiple partners so
just briefly it's not because i'm
embarrassed about it all right
every single committed relationship i've
had
has been an open relationship all of
them uh okay enough
unless you're like my first girlfriend
in high school like okay when i was
still in high school no
but like as as an adult let's say from
the middle of university or something
through to now
all of my relationships have been open
relationships okay
but then you ask so this includes my
marriage to my first wife
okay okay but then you ask a second
question so do you actually have
multiple partners right so we've just
been talking about some of you have not
been here since the top of the video
once you really care about having
meaningful relationships with people
right your standard you get choosy quick
you know it's it's very hard i'm an
unapproachable person
you know it's it uh and look as i'm
happy you're all in the audience today
be great if you give the video a thumbs
up i'm happy to have this conversation
with you you can tell i'm i'm
i'm a gregarious person i don't i don't
have a stutter
i don't have difficulty talking to women
or getting along with women okay
i will never go to a nightclub
not even once okay guys i will never go
to a baseball game
i will never go to a football game i
will never
take a [ __ ] shoe shopping and buy her
high heeled manolos i will never buy a
woman a purse
that i've only heard about in a rap song
so the names of high-heeled shoes and
brands of purses right
like you have to recognize what my life
is about and what kind of man i am
right and what kind of engagement have
other people and other people find it
intimidating
so we'll come back to this and i say
good be
intimidated run away great i'm so
[ __ ] happy for you if you're an idiot
if you're a bimbo
if you're a shallow person leading a
meaningless life i'm
so glad you're afraid to have copyright
i'm so glad you don't want to have lunch
with me
and i don't want to drink coffee with
you and i don't want to have much to do
and i don't want you to be part of my my
intimate life either
you know that's great i'm so glad you
find it intimidating
but sure you know i i think i mean sorry
i think garcia now that i'm just saying
this briefly i think you can put the
pieces together
you know there are incredibly few people
and you know of course
i'm a highly motivated highly ambitious
person but i'm not motivated to seduce
people it's not my priority so you're
saying i travel over the world
okay looks at different points i've
talked about going to japan
do you think i've ever once said to
melissa or thought like oh i should go
to japan so i can
seduce or sleep with stranger no you're
like
why did we go to greece you know why did
i go to
cambodia or laos none of it like i'm not
motivated to do these things for my sex
life i'm out there
these different trips i mean i'm
generalizing with travel but i'm either
motivated by research
or humanitarian work like there's some
reason for me to be going these places
that really matters to me
i don't i don't live my life that way
right my ambitions
you give me a tremendously rewarding
life right but in
a meaningful sense also it's exclusive
right like if you present this life to
people say hey who wants to jump in
who wants to join who wants to be
involved even as a friend on facebook
let's keep it over
even for anyone a woman or a man to kind
of be my friend and go along with my
life
they find it intimidating i mean they
find it including
there were some women who tried to
seduce me away from melissa
you know and and they felt like whoa
i don't want to live up to this guy's
standards you know
and and that's a beautiful thing
i am never going to try to talk one of
those people into
living up to my standards and i am never
going to live down to their standards
so yeah i think that's i think that's a
an answer a quote
why does eisel not talk about a sex life
we all want to hear about it period this
is not trolling
so comment comment from ds so diaz i
think you haven't been
uh you haven't been watching the channel
long enough i have many times
made videos talking about myself and
they are the most thumbs down
videos on the channel the most hated i
think actually the vast majority of my
audience would prefer
if i pretended i didn't have uh i didn't
have a sex life at all say another
another great question but not the
not the title of this video what made
you fall in love
with melissa but look let's let's just
be real so these are these are great
questions i'm not offended by any of
this
didn't you already get a sense of this
at the start of the video like whatever
then the first 15 minutes the video
i mean i really talked about living a
meaningful life with melissa and how
we're both
powerfully positively motivated to keep
this relationship going and make
sacrifice
even when it's not convenient there have
been periods of time when we weren't
living in the same city
you know like the first time we've been
separated by circumstances and it's
really hard and you know there have been
sources of conflict and tension and also
just so just struggles about
education and career you know the need
to earn money the need to you know
sure i mean there are just problems like
that but you know there is this sense of
having a meaningful life together
which again it's also present even in
silence
like i just say like before i said okay
this this was kind of rushed i said like
this morning before i started live
streaming i was up for more than an hour
oh more than two hours uh i'll get up at
6 00 a.m
and you know the fact that my girlfriend
appreciates what i'm reading and why
and what i'm interested in and she does
also appreciate and support my
physical fitness and health and stuff
that's just not that high priority
i'm not trying to win the olympic games
or anything you know to have someone
even if we don't talk about it it's
there all the time and let me tell you
something
maybe there are some younger men and
women in the audience and i can put you
on game
when you are with someone who
disapproves
of what you're reading when you are with
someone who thinks that what you're
reading is a [ __ ] waste of time or
what you're doing with your career and
stuff
oh you feel that in the silence also
right
you get to wake up in the morning and
deal with that silence
even when you're not talking about it
even when you're not fighting right when
you're with someone who morally
disapproves of you
someone who intellectually doesn't
understand you so look i think on that
you know
it's a great question we could make a
whole bunch of videos talking about
uh talking about all these all these
things
just briefly glancing down the rest of
the questions here
yeah um
great question from the audience what
about cats though
and he says after realizing i felt the
same way that isil does
about pet ownership so it's someone else
who's who's auntie cat
uh in this sense um
okay so look
human nature does not consist entirely
of social instincts obviously most of
what these people talk about and what
they fantasize about
is the desire to be with other people to
share your life with other people to
have a life together
and let's be clear too those social
instincts they aren't just about getting
laid and they aren't just about getting
married and they aren't just about
having kids
either right social instincts
in terms of evolutionary time are also
about building a tribe
building a community having people you
can rely on to take care of you when
you're sick
having people you can rely on to defend
you against
barbarians you know for real i'm sorry
if you have any study of any
you know historical or ancient societies
you don't have to go back into the mists
of early um anthropological time we
don't have to go back to the stone age
it's very clear that our social
instincts and our sexual instincts
are not to produce a unit
consisting of one man one wife and one
child and by the way we're going to deal
with gay relationships
in this too which again fits into this
larger notion of building a tribe
building a small society
so you guys know i used to live in laos
i used to live in laos in cambodia and
southeast asia
and you can study the tribal societies
that existed there in the past
and you can study the travel societies
that still exist there in the present
if you have two people alone in the
jungle
they are going to die your ability to
survive as just
two people together in the jungle is
zero your ability to raise a child is
zero
now you could get into actually what the
minimum survival
size is for a tribe so i will just
mention this briefly there there has
been research on this in laos
i do think the research is somewhat
biased and somewhat romanticized
a lot of people wanted to romanticize
tribal life and tribal survival
but basically what people say in this
field
is that the higher you go up the
mountain
the smaller the size of the tribe so
there there was one tribe in particular
where i was in northern laos
and they lived way up on the the
pinnacle of the mountains you know where
it's cold
and they would survive with just like a
nuclear family
you know so i know like eight people in
a house or something
no village no town it'd be kind of one
mountain top
one one household now
you know there are issues here about
disease and how you get water and
everything else
and then the this is the kind of
generalized anthropological wisdom was
as you came down
lower from the mountain into the rice
paddies and into the jungle
that you needed these larger and larger
units to survive no
one reason for that guys is slavery
is defense is what thomas hobbes calls
the war of all against all um to give
you a sense of how
constant and omnidirectional um
you know war and slavery were in those
cultures
we have tribes up there northwestern
corner of laos
northeastern myanmar and then the
adjacent corner of
china you know these are modern borders
they're not ancient borders reflecting
the indigenous
there are a lot of traditions out there
of women tattooing their faces not men
it's not it's not trying to look tough
but women would
tattoo their faces both to try to avoid
being enslaved and turn into sex slaves
basically
but also so that if they were taken
captive
and enslaved so that they could be found
afterwards so they could be identified
so other people will be able to see them
and of course oh you know there's a
member of your tribe
that's ended up enslaved over there i
could see her with her facial tattoos
because slaves very often aren't like
they may be literally in chains
they're not in a position where they can
talk or show for help they just sit
there
they're forced to sit there silently but
someone else can see it and then go back
to try and go oh that's where one of
your women ended up wasn't sleeping
so yes you know self-defense
in the most brutal and ancient sense
is part of why we have these social
instincts and
everybody's got to sleep the strongest
man in the jungle is equivalent to the
weakest child
when he is lying down to sleep anyone
can kill him in his sleep
so the need to have people who will
defend you
who will defend your village or defend
your hut while you are sleeping
all right this is what we have social
instincts for we don't have social
instincts
just to get laid just to have one night
stands all right
um no i'm not saying this means you
should never have one nice day i don't
think there's some
simple leap of inference you can take
from this kind of
evolutionary psychology and i always
caution against that
um you know it may be that a series of
one-night stands is
all that you have to enjoy in life and
if so i pity you
but you know i am also not saying that
on this basis we should all go back to
living in huts
you know and we should all go back to
living in stone age or bronze conditions
all right the facts of anthropology the
facts
of ethnography ethnology
evolution those facts
do not present us with an ideal
for a better future society and they do
not provide us with values that we ought
to live our lives according to today
okay
what we can discover through
anthropology and evolution
okay it's not a standard for you to live
up to
it's not an ideal for you to pursue
however i'm here just fleshing out what
do we mean
by social instincts okay we don't mean
that human beings by nature just want to
cuddle
and embrace everyone we don't mean that
human beings just want to seduce and
sleep with everyone
and we don't mean this is really a 21st
century thing we don't mean
one man living alone in an apartment
playing video games totally isolated he
does his job
or let's say he's a stock broker he just
sits at his computer and do his job
alone
and then once every so many days he goes
out to a nightclub
where he uses a combination of let's say
money alcohol and cocaine
to sleep with a random stranger and then
after that one night stand is over goes
back and lives alone in his apartment
right
i'm just saying there were a lot of
websites there's a lot of
red pill stuff for this is the ideal
life for them
they live alone they play video games
they don't talk to them when they don't
put up their description then
periodically
they venture out to seduce some women
and have you know
short and a lot of people this is maybe
the ideal for their sexuality during um
during college right so i'm gonna pause
and uh just reply to you
so thanks we've got we've got some notes
of appreciation from monsieur garcia
he says thank you for your
the tricky talk explain it
well thank you and
go for people to accept a fundamentally
fundamentally tragic commentary a
fundamentally tragic analysis
where i'm saying to you um i have the
answer to this question
but it's bad news you know i have the
solution to this problem
but it's never going to work like i you
know i'm i'm
talking about this philosophically but
i'm not lying to you i'm not giving you
some overly optimistic sense
of this wonderful solution i'm providing
you for the rest of your life and my own
life in that sense
you know is a tragedy but it's a tragedy
i embrace
it's a tragedy i'm positive about it so
as i was saying many minutes ago
it's not that i think what the black
pill people are doing is bad and evil
and wrong right
um it's the question of what next
what now like if you can't have this
fantasy if you can never be happy
if you can never be happy because this
was your notion of happiness and this is
what you're pursuing and you've faced up
to the fact that you can't
have that okay what now
what next you know and i can't say
everybody has to deal with this i think
though when you look at the tiny
minority people who don't have to deal
with this
kind of disappointment in life i think
you'll generally feel sorry for them
i was just reading uh about you know the
the real truth of who
michael jackson was and obviously
michael jackson's
mental development was stunted by having
too much success too early in life
he was already a multi-millionaire and a
success story i think eight years old or
something so that was a very small child
you know he already had this kind of
success and
i mean you know nobody would want to end
up like michael jackson
i mean you know i mean that if you know
anything about this guy despicable awful
human being
and also a drug addict and everything
else you know but i mean
shockingly too michael jackson was
heterosexual so this has now been proven
a lot of people thought from his manner
of speaking they thought he was gay or
they thought he was a pedophile
well no he was heterosexual he did sleep
with women he did sleep with prostitutes
so these things have come out after his
death he managed to keep a clean
image um but you know
yes with the exception of people like
michael jackson who are pitiable
as exceptions to the rule all of us have
to deal with
this fundamental kind of disappointment
that you know
the hashtag blackpill people you know to
some extent
emblematize for us there are extreme
cases of it coming out the internet and
talking about their talking about their
disappointment
[Music]
okay a bunch of other sympathetic uh
comments here
okay so so a couple people were talking
about introversion
um i left a comment on the internet
about this the other day they got a
bunch of thumbs up
okay what you call introversion all
right what if it's an excuse
all right what is
introversion okay some people
have ambition some people
care about making the world a better
place they care about helping other
people
and they wake up every day to pursue
those ambitions
and help other people and make the world
a better place and some people
lack those redeeming qualities and they
call it
being an introvert okay i don't believe
that
socializing with others exists as an end
in itself
but let's take the the simplest and
stupidest kind of charity
let's talk about running a soup kitchen
this is an american version
let's talk about giving soup to poor
hungry people let's get specific
there are camps of refugees
on the border near where you're living
and you are gonna set up a soup kitchen
where you go out and give
free soup to people who are in some kind
of internment camp or refugee camp
okay it doesn't really matter it doesn't
matter if we're talking about this being
on
the jordanian border it doesn't really
the cambodian border
we had refugee camps there for decades
and decades and decades
um you know okay if that's what you want
to do and if that's what you care about
all right you can't [ __ ] tell me that
the reason you're not doing it is
because you're an introvert
you know and you can't conversely
you can't tell me that the reason you
are doing it is because you
love people no you don't you don't love
the people if you're actually going to
get out and do that if you are actually
going to go and have a soup kitchen
and help refugees you are going to learn
just how awful
those people are face to face man to man
one time
you are going to work with people you're
going to have colleagues that you hate
oh god this this guy jim he's such a
drag but you know i can't run the soup
kitchen without him
you're going to be thinking i'm looking
for any excuse to fire jim
i want to replace jim and get someone
else to chop up the celery
to make the soup and you know again if
you have a soup kitchen to help drug
addicts you're going to see how awful
the drug addicts are if you have a
stupid you know refugees you're going to
see how awful
the refugees are even if you start with
some kind of delusion that this is about
your social instincts
that you love people that you love the
people okay go to the people
be the people see the people
smell the people talk to the people
right and you're gonna figure out you
don't like the people anymore
okay you're gonna figure how much you
hate them and how much they hate you
they hate you back they don't like you
and if if
one person out of a thousand that you
help becomes your friend it's a [ __ ]
miracle
if one person out of a hundred that you
work with at that soup kitchen becomes
your real friend
it's a miracle all right so that's
that's a simple ambition
running a soup kitchen any ambition any
desire to make the world a better place
any
ability to help others it's incompatible
with this thing that people call being
an introvert
but maybe what you're calling being an
introvert is really that you're a lazy
selfish piece of [ __ ]
maybe you're lazy and you're selfish and
you're hung up on
short-term self-indulgence and you're
vindicating that
as a personal characteristic that you
call introversion okay and i say that's
[ __ ]
all right if you go out and open a soup
kitchen
you know you won't be an introvert
anymore
period you'll be the most extroverted
[ __ ] person in the world just dealing
with managing that soup kitchen dealing
with the other
staff doing the fundraising getting the
donations
dealing with the beneficiaries
anything
anyway great great question though thank
you
all right so a brief question from silly
men ali uh he says quote i like that you
clarify what you mean when you make a
point so you don't accidentally mislead
people
just like how you were clarifying the
point you made about one night stands
not being
uh inherently bad okay great point this
particular
video is not really about one night
stands but you're right it's not that
it's
inherently bad it's extrinsically bad
and you know i have made videos talking
with it before where what you have to
ask yourself a question
short term and long term is what kind of
person am i trying to become how is this
going to change who i am who am i trying
to be
but you know let's get so i have this
relationship that's going on for
uh four years with melissa what if
melissa and i had met up and the
relationship just didn't work if we
weren't compatible
well we wouldn't have intended for that
to be a one-night stand
right but you can go into situation with
the best of intentions and it's a
one-night stand or a one-week stand
so no i'm not going to say one-night
stands are inherently bad
um but obviously i mean also in my
critique i was saying well living your
life
all right so let's let's really let's
address this profoundly but briefly all
right
um what is the basis of the political
organization
for a society like in principle what do
we have a polity for what do we have a
city for
what do we have a country for what do we
have an empire for
we deal with a lot of empires in the
world okay
the answer to that question really
shapes everything that happens in that
society
institutionally culturally and otherwise
right like the principle
of the foundation of the country of
saudi arabia
is different from the principle on which
the united states of america is founded
and it changes life there in every
way all the time right the principle of
being beholden to a king
because you were born on his land
you know it's it's different it changes
things
you know is does your government exist
in principle
to provide justice you know and now
that's a very hard promise to live up to
do the people and the bureaucrats
do they all regard the doing of justice
as being what government is
fundamentally about or something more
nobody does today nobody does people
treat
the justice system as this kind of ugly
footnote
to american democracy and they don't
really want to deal with it don't really
think about it
or do you think of the function of
government as being
welfare programs you know so-called new
deal
social welfare i think that's very
common today people think oh the reason
government exists is to give handouts
to give money to the poor give free
stuff to people who didn't work to
deserve it
that has i mean that has profound
knock-on
consequences and sorry another one if
you guys think um
if you guys think that you know saudi
arabia is too difficult an example to
relate to
how about thailand thailand has a
kingdom like in some ways on the surface
a much
much more appealing kingdom culturally
much easier for us to relate to
all of you would be happier living in
thailand than saudi arabia
but you know when you get in that
fundamental question of of what is
government exists
it's in this sense that i would really
warn you about
one night stance right so i said before
look
you know melissa and i met we were
trying to fall in love we were trying to
spend the rest of our lives together
i was i mean you know i was re i said to
melissa openly and i said to the other
women who were
pursuing me openly at the time melissa
had competition
i am looking for a woman who can meet my
daughter
you know who can be some kind of you
know
second mother to my daughter like that's
what i'm looking for you know
there's something to step up to here you
know um however
if we'd met and it just didn't work or
we just weren't compatible
then it could have been an effect on
what i stand
so that was you can see that's kind of
the principle i was living my life for
and then there's more than one possible
outcome or consequence
but sure you know if you're talking
about living your life for
one night stance where that's what your
sexuality is about
is meeting and seducing and discarding
strangers
you know on the basis either just to
their appearance or a very brief
evaluation of their character
based on chit-chatting sure i think
that's bad sure i think that's that's
corrosive
you know but sure i mean you know
conversely
you know conversely i've got to tell you
something it's hard to be sex positive
but i try and you know i mean what is
what if there's some
warmth in you if there's some generosity
of spirit
you know you can reach out to another
person and fall in love with them for
just one night and move on if you can do
that
and they can do that for you and you can
have that together
i mean how how does that really compare
to downhill skiing parachuting
cocaine i mean the things people do for
fun the things people do that they think
make them happy
how does that compare to speed running
video games repetitively
playing the same video game over and
over again for 100 hours
so that you can get a world record in
that video game you know i can't i can't
say that sex is bad and i can't say that
one night stands are bad i can't make
that judgment
whereas i'm completely willing to say
that alcohol is bad and gambling is bad
and downhill skiing is bad and
cocaine is bad so you know it's hard to
be sex positive but with all those
warnings you know i try
um great question is anyone else in the
chat happily married
thanks for coming i hope you give the
video a thumbs up everybody everybody
who's happily married give a thumbs up
everyone is a miserable in-cell
uh give a thumbs up everyone who's black
filled you know
um
okay so another good way we got a lot of
great questions and comments here and
that's that's great but i do have to get
back to my basic premise
so silly man asks um do you have
any tips for approaching women in high
school
and so you know silly man i think you
are making the transition from high
school the first year of university
you mentioned university there also do
you have any approach so that's that's
great i i will digress
to to deal with that but you know
obviously it's part of the title of this
this video it is related to what we're
talking about in this video
um you know that the ultimate game is no
game
thank you for the thumbs up it will help
other people discover the video
and join our audience while we're here
uh even though we now have 57 people
we've repeatedly repeatedly kicked
everyone out
started again but it's been great we we
had 65 people before or something and
whatever it is of this i can't expect
people to have
hours and hours free in the middle of
the day here on announcement i
appreciate all of you make a good time
to come on
okay look you know the problem with
meeting women in high school
the problem with meeting women in
university is that they don't know who
they are yet and they don't know what
they want yet and they haven't
demonstrated what they're capable of yet
so you are making judgments about other
people
based on their potential rather than
based on who they really
are right and flip it around that's true
for them about you too right they are
making
decisions based on your potential so if
you are a 30 year old
dating other 30 year olds you don't have
to worry about that you're not dealing
with potential
you're dealing with who somebody really
is what they can really do
right you're dealing with you know way
better
it's way easier whether or not it's
better you know when i got together with
melissa she was 24
and it's partly a judgment based on who
she is
she could be and who she
could develop into right for melissa
melissa was not the most mature 24 year
old
bro she thought she was i mean she
thought she was especially mature for a
24 year old
and i think she learned in the years
that fall that she really had a lot of
growing up to do and a lot of maturing
do
uh between 24 and 28 you know
now you know i think i made the right
decision and it's been a huge investment
of time and effort it has been
emotionally and intellectually
exhausting for both of us we've both
made
tremendous sacrifices to to uh make it
work so someone
someone in the audience writes in uh
that yes he or she is now 23 years old
and doesn't know
who they are what they're doing i think
i think this is a woman writing i think
that she's 23 just know who she is
so now look i do not mean this as an
insult
right you know um
i do not mean to say it's a bad thing
for someone who is 17 18 19 20 to not
know who they are and i know what they
want it's not it's not a problem to be
immature when you're
like what do you expect you know why
would you expect that
okay so this is one aspect of it so i
i'm
giving this to you as real life advice
for your romance life so
man you know when you approach these
women when you talk to these women
or if you're gay then it's men
approaching whatever whether men
approaching women women approaching men
whatever the combination is
when you're approaching people you've
got to kind of do it
with the spirit of you know
who do you think you want to be you know
with this kind of awareness
and with a knowledge that you're doing
the same for them you're letting the
person hey you know
this is who i think i want to be this is
this is what i want to
you know this is what i think i want to
become this is what i think i want to
accomplish
and you may be wrong and they may be
wrong
and within a few years both of you might
have given up on your dreams
some people want to be a ballet dancer
and they figure they don't want to be in
the ballet you want to be a police
officer and you figure you really don't
want to be in the police force
and these are simple examples right but
like on a deep
level what you're going through while
you're in university
has to do with this kind of questioning
of yourself and others and that's
delicate
and let me tell you something here in
canada white
people in english speaking canada the
number one attitude you get
the number one reply you're gonna get is
don't you know
who i think i am
who do you think you are
probably should have said that the other
way around the point being that they
simultaneously reproach you
they reproach you saying who do you
think you are
don't you know who i think i am it's
this overblown
misplaced sense of confidence that they
already know precisely what it is
that they can't know that they're
already committed to a life path and so
on which
you know in the vast majority of cases
of course is going to end in disaster or
not last
you know how many people do you know who
completely committed to dropping out of
college
and devoting their time to a youtube
channel for example and a few years
later they reconsider that decision
dropping out of high school even
um you know this is a time in your life
when people are supposed to be 110
commit
110 committed to being a medical doctor
when they have no idea yet
how boring and awful medical science is
or how denigrating it is to work in a
hospital
whether it's as a nurse or a doctor
people are committed to being a lawyer
and they present oh i'm a i'm a young
up-and-coming lawyer
oh you know nothing about what the
practice of the law is like you know
nothing what that's going to do to you
and how it's going to change you and
what that's going to be wrong
and you know so on down into much more
specific areas of studies
so that's hard that's hard for everyone
you know now coming back to the title
this video
you know um the ultimate game is no game
so i've said that i've set this up with
the kind of sensitive sensitivity
to the these aspects unh and then in
that context i really feel
the ultimate game is no game the
ultimate game is just
to meet these people you present
yourself and this is coming back to the
main
point of this video you know and you
feel out and you have a sense
for is this somebody i would want to
have
coffee with is this somebody i would
want to have lunch with
is this somebody i want to have friends
with and those are much
lower levels of compatibility and common
interest
than is this somebody i would want to
put my penis inside impregnate and spend
the rest of my life with right
like that's that's a huge level
of commitment that comes after that
right
um
yeah so there's a bunch of intelligent
comments in the uh
in the comments section but i don't
think i'm going to digress to you know
to deal with them
okay so let's get back to the
fundamental point of this video and then
we got to read and reply to the question
from the audience
this is inspired by um
people have social instincts but they
also have anti-social instincts
okay very fundamental
to life on earth are not just those
instincts that drive people to come
together
and form a family drive families to come
together and form a tribe
or a clan or you know to live in a
village together
to form a society on even a smaller
scale those social instincts that drive
people to
develop mutual respect
mutual trust you know like i'm gonna go
to sleep
and i trust that you are gonna stay
awake and guard the village and you're
gonna bang a drum or something to wake
us up
if something lights on fire it's a huge
problem in ancient society sorry
relying on fire for everything and
everything is flammable
like your house is made out of flammable
materials everything's made out of
flammable materials but you rely on
keeping fires going all the time
24 7 keeping fires going so you are
going to wake us up if the fire gets out
of control
you are going to wake us up if wild
animals attack us or if the next tribe
over
an adjacent tribe comes to enslave us i
am going to trust you
these are there are powerful social
instincts
that drive us out of our apartments
drive us away from our computers and our
video games till this day to meet other
people
and seek out a more meaningful life with
them and helping other people and trying
to make the world a better place
okay um there's a lot going on in the
social institute okay
but we don't have social instincts
only just as important equally important
or even
more important are the anti-social
instincts
and we vilify this in our culture it's
just as important that you judge people
and you say and you feel i don't want to
have coffee with you
i don't want to have this conversation
with you i don't want to eat lunch with
you
i don't trust you and i don't want to
trust you i don't want to put i don't
want to get to know you and learn to
trust me i don't want to share my life
with you much less are you someone i
want to
have sex with get pregnant with
reproduce and raise
children you know what i mean um
you know so the negative index
the negative metric the negative
indication for how these instincts work
i think that's really a very useful
guide to what it is
to have game and why i say in this sense
the ultimate game uh is no game
so
when a woman rejects a man and she may
reject him in a
shallow catty or insulting way okay
we tend to dismiss this as if
it's some personal failing as if it is
an
evil as if it subtracts from
and doesn't add to our society or what
is human nature
we're constantly especially the people
who are in the the black pill
and the red pill and the blue pill all
these people carrying with dating
religion
okay we have to instead
treat that as a primary fact in life
that what all of us are doing all the
time
is rejecting one another every day you
are meeting and interact with other
people whether they are your classmates
your co-workers your colleagues people
you meet at the grocery store
you know you meet people you talk to
people briefly you interact with them
and even if both sides are completely
polite you reject them
you have conclusion this is not somebody
i want to try to meet up with and have a
cup of coffee
this is not somebody i want to have
lunch with this is not somebody i want
to share my life with
this is not somebody i trust or want to
trust let alone
you know uh have a child and you're
doing this
all the time whether you're aware of it
or not and the other person may feel
rejected also
you may not be aware that you've just
heard their feelings because they really
did want to have a coffee with you they
really did want to have lunch with you
or maybe they were even thinking you
could become
a friend of theirs like i have a
meaningful relationship with the rest of
your life
or maybe they were thinking you might
want to get them pregnant
or vice versa this might be the person
you have you'd have children with and
you have just shut them down
you have rejected them it's something
we're doing every day
over and over again all the time all
right it is part of the constant
drum beat of daily life is rejection
rejection rejection rejection all every
day all the time every minute of the day
unless you're alone at home with your
computer right and then
once in a long while once whether it's
once a month or once a year
you meet someone where you want to
overcome
those anti-social instincts and you want
to find out
what it is you have in common you want
to climb over that fence
you want to overcome that hostility and
develop that trust
develop that mutual admiration and
appreciation and really have them
whether it is romantic or platonic you
want to have them as a long-term
part of your life all right i think the
fundamental error going on for the black
pill people
and the red pill people is
it's a false sense of what is default
like these guys complain like oh whoa
i'm a perfectly attractive guy in my
mid-20s
why are these women rejecting me dude
every time you go to the grocery store
you're rejecting people every time you
go to class every time you go to work
you are surrounded by people all the
time and you think this person is
too stupid this person is too ugly this
person is a member of a religion i
disagree with
this person is ethically abhorrent to me
this person is a drug addict
all the time you are judging people and
rejecting them
you aren't offering to have coffee with
all these people you aren't offering to
have lunch these people there's this one
person that stands out in your
imagination
and you feel that all of society is a
[ __ ] conspiracy against you
you think that feminists and liberalism
have created a society that's unfair to
you
because the one woman you're attracted
to who you didn't want to reject you
did you know you don't treat this as a
primary fact of life as the drum beat
of human life you feel in a full sense
entitled to be accepted whenever you
desire someone you assume desire is
reciprocal
and it's not i'm even gonna go further
it never
is okay what's universal
are these anti-social instincts what's
reciprocal by default is exactly this
distrust
this distance this standoffishness and
how do you overcome it
all right you overcome it by having
something meaningful in common
right you overcome it through the
extraordinary recognition
this is someone who cares about the same
things i care about
this is someone who is going to wake up
in the morning
and read the same books i'm reading is
going to care about the things i'm
reading
this is someone who cares ethically
politically in whatever sense look even
if it were the pure sciences
even if this is so you've got someone
who's dedicated their life
to the study of organic chemistry and
they meet this one other person who
really sympathizes with the research
they're doing or what they care about
maybe it's even their hobby you know a
lot of people you study chemistry
university it's not how you earn your
living
but you know in their spare time they're
really committed to the literature for
what's going on in organic chemistry
you know whatever it is you need someone
where you
have this thing in common and you say
okay wow
i want to have lunch with you i want to
take that first step i want to devote a
number of hours to getting to know you
on your terms and there are going to be
bad things about your character they're
going to be things i dislike about you
and i'm going to accept them i'm going
to accept
you all in all all the good and the bad
bundled up i'm going to cope with it
right because of this common ground
because of
this thing that helps us overcome you
know our mutual alienation our mutual
distrust
even we could say our mutual hatred
right we have to treat
the rejection as something positive and
if you don't think it's positive
just stop and reflect on how much
rejection you engage in yourself
that you know you meet people every day
who are too
stupid to be worth your time male or
female gay or straight doesn't matter
whether it's platonic or man you think
this person's an idiot
and and maybe you tell them they're an
idiot maybe you insult them
the vast majority of times you don't
best the vast major attempts you reject
them but you think
i'm just going to keep this civil i've
got to see this person at work every so
often or i've got to see this person at
the grocery store i'm going to keep this
open and i'm going to let this person
know
i don't want to have coffee with you i
don't want to have lunch and sure the
main reason is stupidity
and you know what the people you have
common ground with the people you you
feel
this passion you know
to share your life with whether platonic
or romantic whether just for friendship
or for
reproduction right you know what in
some part of their life they may be
stupid also
and again when i talk about accepting
what's wrong you know if you
with a lot of these people in your life
you'll think if i didn't know
about this thing we had in common if i
didn't know this common interest this
common passion that brought us together
i would have judged them for being
stupid because they're stupid in this
other
part of their life right now we can give
a million examples but you know it's
like oh
i know this person they really care
about the politics of china
i care about the politics of china also
so we become friends it doesn't matter
whether
we're friends or we become lovers it
really doesn't the person's concern but
we overcome
okay wow so let's spend time and have
lunch and you know you care about
chinese politics okay
they smoke cigarettes how can you be so
stupid
let's say this person may have a whole
list of things wrong with them they
smoke cigarettes
let's say they take prozac every day
they're on a daily dose of prostate
let's say they take
adhd meds and they drink alcohol
and they eat meat all right of course i
could say if i had met this person in
different circumstances i just met them
at the grocery store
and we chit-chatted lamb this is all i
know about you is ooh cigarettes alcohol
meat
you know and let's say they got their
prescription bottles and whoa
you're a trainer i don't want to know
you i don't want to okay
but the point is you will meet and you
will share your life with people
when there is something in common that
motivates you to overcome
those those antisocial instincts so this
is why i say my
my critique of the black pill movement
is most these guys are correct
their hopelessness if regarded as a
single stage of analysis
is correct the problem is that it's
short-term thinking the problem is it's
a single stage of analysis
instead of looking at your whole life
over a period of decades and decades
instead of looking at how can i lead a
meaningful life and then involve other
people in that meaningful life and some
of them are going to love me
and some of them are just going to be my
colleagues and some of them are going to
be my
my you know enemies some of them are
going to hate me so they're going to be
my rivals
that's a good word some of them are
going to compete with me there's maybe a
mixture of admiration and
hatred some kind of friction you know
and some of them are going to have sex
with me and some of them are going to
raise my kids
what what am i going to do with that
over time right and obviously it's got
to
come out of these kinds of these kinds
of passions
right you can't have common ground with
other people
if all you care about is playing mario
64. all you care about is video games
all you care about is your selfish
short-term indulgence if you don't have
ambitions if you aren't accomplishing
something great or something meaningful
let me just point out it's completely
subjective okay
of course it's subjective give you
here's a real down-to-earth example
let's just say you are an
african-american
you're born and raised black in the
united states of america
and you know what your passion is your
passion
is going back to the canon of english
literature stuff like
shakespeare stuff like jane eyre and
pulling it apart
and putting together new dramas new
movies
that make this meaningful to the
african-american experience
so you say hey i want to do an all-black
hamlet
hamlet is a famous play by shakespeare i
want to do an all black
you know dragon you know whatever maybe
get deeper into this literature
you know you want to do you want to make
a jane eyre that means something to the
african-american experience
this may sound corny there's a lot of
money in this trust me you could get
this sounds like a terrible idea it's
the kind of idea that makes a lot of
money gets a lot of support
okay if you are passionate about that
think about what other kind of people
you're going to meet
you know there are there are lots of
people there probably less people in
this audience who will sit here and say
well that's a stupid passion to have
who the hell wants to spend their time
and effort reinterpreting
shakespeare for an african-american
audience does it okay challenge yourself
on this
what if you're japanese what if you want
to translate shakespeare into japanese
and have an all-japanese hamlet you want
to have shakespeare but instead they're
samurai
with samurai swords and armor and it's
in japanese and it relates to the
japanese
renaissance or medieval experience if
you want to put this oh
oh oh okay now oh okay now i can relate
okay so it's meaningful for
african-americans too by the way it's
meaningful for africans in africa
it could be black people in africa say
hey i want to take this literature and
appropriate it
and reinterpret it and make it
meaningful to our culture or something
okay obviously you are going to get laid
can you can you [ __ ] i mean this is
shooting fish in a barrel it's not the
point
you're not studying shakespeare in order
to get laid whether you did this in
japan or in africa or brazil
or georgia in the united states of
america
of course this is going to bring friends
into your life and colleagues
and if you in the audience think this is
[ __ ] and think this is a waste your
time
it's subjective maybe you're right maybe
there's something better you could be
doing with your time than shakespeare i
don't think shakespeare is the greatest
thing in the world with your time it's
on a scale of one to ten it's better
than playing video games but it's worse
than something else you do
you know it's of some moderate level of
meaningfulness
but you will meet the other people
who share your values who share your
passions you will meet the other people
who perceive what you're doing as great
right
and some of them are going to want to
have sex with you and i don't even think
it's a stretch to say even if you're
ugly
yeah there are limits you know if you're
incredibly ugly if you have two noses
if you're horribly deformed you know
like i've talked about in other videos
people talk about there's relative
ugliness
there's absolutely if you have such an
extreme deformation
that you know nobody's going to sex you
okay i accept that there are some people
who are that disadvantaged
but if you are moderately ugly if you
are a 3 out of 10
the people who want to have sex to you
will find you
and if you're so ugly that nobody has
sex with you still
this will be a way for you to have
friends for you to have colleagues you'd
have the
the raw materials for a meaningful life
by getting committed this way
and i'm sure you guys remember most you
were in the audience we've had some new
people joining thanks for hitting thumbs
up it's brought new people in the
audience as i said it would
i gave the example of running a soup
kitchen as opposed to being an introvert
you see obviously the same thing you
would have to be a psychopath
to study shakespeare and put on a
shakespeare play in order to get laid
you would have to be a psychopath to
start a soup kitchen and start a charity
that's helping the poor
you know in order to get laid however
yes you know of course having a
meaningful life in this way
of course it's going to lead to you to
you actually getting played
i'm going to pause and just uh look at
some of these some of these
comments somebody says don't disparage
the speed runners
[Laughter]
so i have made i have made some youtube
videos talking about speed running and
playing video games and
and uh uh quitting videos okay we got we
got a whole bunch of uh
a whole whole bunch of interesting
questions here somebody says the best
that most of us are going to get is 80
percent
to make make sure your values are
aligned are you like 80 percent
compatibility right okay so uh good
things uh um
mercia or musica i'm not sure about this
person i'm not sure if you're male or
female either
for this discussion whether you're male
or female might okay
but like how much you have in common
with somebody right like how much common
ground you got something
in some ways that's going to be relative
to also the greatness of your ambitions
together
right um
let's just say you get together with
somebody who has a nice body
good-looking man a good-looking woman
again whether you're straight gay male
female you know whatever
combinations let's say you find someone
who's attractive to you
but they're an idiot they watch sports
on tv
and you don't you're too let's presume
you yourself are too smart to waste time
what are you supposed to do let's say
they smoke marijuana and drink alcohol
and play video games and they live this
life this way
okay and every day you
resent it you feel like you're with a
snob party
you feel like you're with a slob all
right you feel like you're with someone
who's just not making heaven they may
think that you are a snob
to words that sound similar in english
to tolerance they think you're a snob
you think they're a slob you feel
disappointed with them you feel let down
you're with this schlemiel but they're
hot like you were attracted to them in
the first place but
let's say the sex is at least good when
you really despise someone i don't know
if the sex can be right
you know i'm just being honest if you
really i feel free to write it and
disagree oh no having sex with people
you have no intellectual respect for
could be great couldn't tell you
but you know um
you know okay but what if your life
together
is running a convenience store it's very
common
husband and wife open a convenience
store okay is that meaningful enough
to make that relationship work or when
you wake up in the morning you're
sitting in new york are you talking
about how business is going the
convenience store
oh you know we have that new shipment
coming in we're doing this we're doing
that
you know maybe yes you know like i'm
just being real with you you can be in a
relationship with a schlemiel and
they are awful and the amount you have
in common is very little
but just the fact that you run this
business together
is enough you know the greater your
ambitions are
the greater the passion pushing you
towards those ambitions
you know the more the more that's gonna
that's gonna make it work
and you know guys the other women i've
had who've approached me
you know really seriously wanted me
they've had advantages and disadvantages
i used to say all the time openly on the
internet i assumed i would get with a
vegan single mom
that would get with someone who already
had a kid you know
so obviously if you go into that
relationship you have a complex
relationship with a woman
you have a complex relationship with
their kid you probably have accomplished
issue with their ex-husband
and you have a relationship with the
parents and grandparents and
other people connected to this complex
family it doesn't start
you know there are a lot of
disadvantages there and that that person
will have their own disadvantages of
character
you know whatever their own their own
shortcomings
but you know is there some great project
some great ambition are you running a
business together are you trying to save
the world together are you running a
stupid
you know to ask about the life you live
together and positively what it is
that's pushing you forward
right all their defects of character all
the disadvantages
they're going to be evaluating that kind
of so look us uh there hasn't been a lot
of self-criticism in this video right
but i was very sensitive to this in
terms of my relationship with my first
wife
right because when she got with me i was
super motivated
as a scholar of buddhism also
humanitarian work
also this also that right it's very
and you know i really had to talk to her
about knight feels like look
how do you feel about this when i've
come to a point in my life
where i am quitting being a scholar of
buddhism i'm taking on a whole different
sense of
of meaning and purpose you know so i i'm
just saying that's not
all advantages i mean no she didn't
respond to it that way
my first wife was completely in love
with me
and we could get into why that is and
what she loved doing but she was someone
who was
completely in love with being completely
committed to me and
at least in terms of what she stated
there was no doubt in her mind that she
wanted to be with me even if i
was not a scholar of buddhism anymore we
had to talk about that
several times you know that had to come
come up from different angles it's not
just one conversation
you have once if you get committed to
someone that way you know
but being with someone so i was with her
when she so
let's turn this around i was with her
when she was an anthropologist
getting a phd in anthropology she gave
up on that you know after we broke up
she completely
on anthropology so we could ask the same
hypothetical question later
would i have still been happy staying
with her if she gave up on all of her
intellectual political moral aspirations
the type of activism because there is
this kind of act
you know um so right i
am self-critical and i'm willing to
admit there are there are disadvantages
to this
um but yeah i'm here to preach the
advantages
i sincerely believe that all of you
should take you know take that take that
seriously and live your lives
accordingly
it's it's a rare case i'm talking about
something here morally that i think is
true for all people
in all times in all cultures you know
this is advice that i think is universal
and i don't do that that often there
aren't that many things that i can say
it's not just true for me it's true for
you it's true for everyone
but that yes this is how you should live
your life and i think in an absolute
sense what the black pill people are
saying are wrong and what the
red pill people are saying are wrong and
so on and let me just ask also you know
with the with my competition with the
advice other people are giving you
what if you fail what is your
consolation prize what that what if it
doesn't work out
right if you if you become a womanizer
if you start drinking and hanging around
nightclubs and having one night stands
if that's the life you live and that's
the person you become
and it doesn't turn out the way you you
want it to what kind of person are you
at the end of that when you come to the
end of that road
or even in the middle in the beginning
the middle or the end you know
um you are you are really you're
sacrificing the person you could have
become
you're becoming a terrible person for
terrible reasons frankly
but even if you don't but you know if
you don't succeed
what's the consolation prize with the
advice i'm giving you
if you don't succeed if you end up alone
still you've lived a wonderful life and
you've uh
you know you've become a wonderful
person you've become a better person
um
okay um interesting question off topic
i'll just say really quickly
sam writes in and asks this is a sincere
question
have you always been so comfortable with
insulting people question mark
almost everyone i know will always try
to avoid insulting anyone unless it's
impossible
um
[Music]
you know so no i mean at age 11 or
something
you know this is this is not an innate
characteristic
um when you deal with real things
as an adult that have real consequences
i think it's appropriate and important
to say to people
look this is the truth this is the
problem
this is the solution and if you find
that insulting
go ahead get upset you know it's okay
for you to get upset it's okay for you
to be angry at me it's okay for you to
be
sad and then tomorrow we are gonna
change this
we are gonna make a change you know
sorrow
and suffering are a positive part
of life you know and
encouraging people to live in a state of
their own optimistic self-delusion
it's massively destructive to everyone
involved you know
very often the truth you have to share
with someone
is insulting it is hurtful it does hurt
their feelings
you know and often if you diluted it
to the point that they didn't feel
insulted they wouldn't get the message
they'd ignore it and they wouldn't make
the change
so you know um melissa is
making a video that's not finished yet
this is more about the sorrow and the
suffering and
not not being insulted but it's being
confronted with sign
and melissa was getting very upset
making this video
and she was asking the question why she
should make the video at all
not just because someone else could make
it better but specifically that i
could make it better like if i made a
video on the same topic you know
and it was an in-depth meaningful
discussion but part of what i
said to her is look at how upset you are
right now making this video this is why
you should make the video right it's
true if i made it
it would be effortless but like you are
going through this process of doing this
research
and gathering your own thoughts and
opinions and putting this together and
presenting a video like
you know you are doing something hard
you are getting out of your comfort zone
you are getting uncomfortable you are
challenging yourself you know creatively
and intellectually and emotionally
and you're having this breakdown right
now like you're miserable right now
that's why you shake the video that's
why someone else shouldn't do it for you
nobody else can do push-ups for you i
can do push-ups you can do push-ups
if i do 10 times more push-ups than you
that doesn't mean it's pointless for you
to do push-ups you have to do your own
push-ups
if i can interpret aristotle better than
you that doesn't mean you don't have to
read aristotle you
read aerosol yourself you have your own
interpretation of aristotle whether it's
aristotle or thucydides or shakespeare
there is there is something about you
know you
doing it for yourself so you know the
question from sam was about have you
always been comfortable with insulting
people's way
the fundamental thing to be comfortable
with
is sorrow which is what this video
started talking about that was the
opening of this video
sorrow and suffering and misery and
disappointment
they're part of life and you have to
embrace them
why to learn so that you learn so that
you adapt so that you grow and you have
to recognize it
so this video began by saying look these
black pill people and these red pill
people they're coming out and sharing
their sorrow and suffering
and we have to be willing to treat that
as legitimate even you know as opposed
to kind of stereotypical left-wing
feminist response
of shutting it down and silencing it and
shaming them for feelings but like no
people aren't happy with their lives but
you know um
learning involves suffering
you know and that is why i'm comfortable
with telling people
truths that are too terrible to tell and
you know
um
yeah i just i deeply do not believe in
blissful ignorance that goes far beyond
the critique of
religion for me it uh you know it
involves all these other things in our
life to uh to a tremendous
extent
okay i'm reading the rest of these
comments about intelligent stuff but
i don't i don't think i need to respond
to each and every one
so yeah briefly though someone just
commented that more than 50
of marriages end in divorce it varies a
bit from country to country but yes it's
a safe bet wherever you're living it
might be 50
it might be 60 it might be as low as 45
yes and i think we've already in this
video outlined a bunch of very very good
reasons as to why that is so junebug
asks you know have we moved on to the
white pill now
well i think that's that's what i'm
outlining in this video
is a sense of a radical alternative
opposite to the black pill that
acknowledges
the complaints and the misery the black
pillar are based on but that transcends
the kind of short-term thinking and
ultimately
self-sabotaging pessimism that black
colors have
that presents instead a fundamental
optimism
that you can lead a meaningful life you
can blaze a trail
and then other people will want to lead
that meaningful life
with you we'll get on board with you so
alex you've been writing in again and
again asking me to define
meaningful i just feel that's not the
purpose of this video but i think i've
made
many videos talking about what is a
meaningful life and what is the meaning
of life
in fact i have a playlist for that don't
i
how about i think of it um i have a
playlist that is called
the meaning of life and it's something
like
not not meant sarcastically like you
know like no like seriously this is this
is a
playlist about um what is the meaning of
life
um i don't really want to interrupt this
live stream now to find that
but there is such a playlist i have made
videos very specifically talking about
what is a meaningful life what is the
meaning of life
i i've made videos talking about um
meaning in the context of nihilist
philosophy
and i could add this video to this
playlist so this is there is the link i
did find the playlist for you
so alex if that's what you want to know
we have i have made
a video starting with that that's not
the topic of today's video
topic today's video is the ultimate game
is no game okay
so we've talked a great deal about this
the idea of anti-social instincts being
primary in our encounters with other
people not secondary and not something
you should be
shamed for okay so i wanna say this
really clearly
if you see a good-looking
hard-working intelligent sober woman
okay why should she want to have lunch
with you
why should she want to go to a coffee
shop and drink coffee with you
all right and if you turn it around if
you're a good-looking
intelligent hard-working man ask
yourself the same
question there are people who want to
have lunch with you and people want to
have sex
and you don't want to have lunch and
most often
it's because they're too stupid you know
it's they're just not
interesting you're not interested
right and it's there's this sick thing
in our culture
of vilifying the woman for not being
interested and blaming the woman for
rejecting you and that is the most
fundamental
social virtue right she should do that
she should do that to everybody and you
do too i mean every one of these you all
do
every day you are rejecting innumerable
people
who would like to get to know you better
whether that's coffee
or lunch or a two-hour conversation and
you are
saying you are expressing implicitly or
x
again again no no no no no i am not
going to have lunch with you i am not
going to put
two hours into getting to know you so
you have to embrace that
and accept that as primary not as
secondary not as a distraction not as a
detraction from what
we're talking about here and then i'm
saying the way to move forward is to
have
passions where you develop things that
you profoundly have
in common with other people so that you
overcome
that uh antagonism that alienation
so that you know people accept you and
they they want to have lunch with you
for exactly exactly these kinds of
reasons um
and again if you actually organize a
soup kitchen if you actually organize
uh an all-black cast of actors
to do an african-american
reinterpretation of shakespeare's hamlet
you'll know people your work you'll work
with people you'll find out what you
have in common
politically ethically personally
aesthetically in in some way
you know and you'll you'll work
from there so you read this question out
a question from a member of the audience
he writes in saying that he is a 22 year
old gay man
romantically interested in another man
who's in his thirties
the other man the man he's approaching
is an intellectual
and the guy writing into me is not
however he would like to become an
intellectual eventually
he asks are there any do's and don'ts
when it comes to dating loving or caring
with intellectuals
coming from your perspective asthma so
i'll just quote this directly because a
little bit touching he says
this guy is so special to me and i don't
want to push him away
because of my stupidity right so i feel
in this video i have already set out all
of the moving parts here
i think you can assemble the answer to
this question from each of the
considerations i've
i've set out for you here already right
now i do think it's positive
to live up to other people's standards i
do think it's positive
to live up to other people's
expectations of you
i do think it's the most wonderful thing
in the world to live with someone
where you feel motivated to read a book
because you don't want to let them down
you feel motivated to do the research
you feel motivated to study chinese
because you don't let them down you feel
motivated to study french to learn
something to work
hard and yes on a much shallower level
maybe you wake up and you feel motivated
to go to the gym and do push-ups because
you don't want to let them down
you know to live up to another person's
standards to live up to another person's
expectations can be a powerful
positive thing and if you don't have
that in your life you'll crave it
if you're in a relationship with some
schlemiel who has nothing in common with
you
intellectually you're with someone who
just watches sports on the couch
and you'll think i wish i was with
someone where i would wake up
in the morning and they're reading the
same kind of books i read or they're
encouraging me to read these books and
they care
you know i wish i was with someone who
had this positive feedback loop in my
life where they are
supporting my interests and aspirations
and i'm supporting their aspirations and
more
compatible in these ways right
okay but that's talking about a
relationship
you are already in that you're already a
part of
it's a very different thing to talk
about developing yourself
intellectually to be in a relationship
with someone who doesn't love you back
maybe someone you don't even really know
yet like maybe it's someone you know
from afar you know i don't know how
distant these people are
maybe something you'll have a slight
acquaintance with you know i don't know
i don't know what the the nature of this
of this is
two things here you know intellectual
development
is not competitive right and it's
compatible
because what we do with this kind of
research
it's always going to be so unique to
ourselves it's going to be unique to us
right the purpose of me doing push-ups
is not for me to do more push-ups than
you
the purpose of me doing research of me
doing this reading
it doesn't compete with you it
inevitably complements you
if you know if i've already read
aristotle and i have a good
interpretation of aristotle if i've
already read thucydides
when melissa reads aristotle or melissa
she's going to have her own perspective
her own analysis her own questions
there's something inelectably
inescapably unique
about what you bring to the books you
read there's something
inescapable unique about what you take
from the books
you read and then how you use it what
you're going to do with it
once you've once you've read those books
right
but the challenge here for this young
man
is do you think you can step up
do you think you can show that you have
so much passion so much verve so much
ambition
so much tenacity that you can create
this
common ground that this guy
you have a crush on looks at you and
thinks
wow you've done this reading or you have
this interest or you're
you're pursuing this ambition this is
the kind of person you are
this is the kind of person you want to
come okay wow
i want to have lunch with you
i want to i want to get to know you i
want to share my life with you
i want to see you know
where the rest of this is going um
[Music]
and you are correct you know precisely
what you are fighting against is the
tendency and the practice and the habit
of mind that we all have
and that is perfectly virtuous of going
around and rejecting people
saying thinking and feeling no no no
too stupid too boring too ugly
too pointless we have too little in
common that you don't want this person
to
think and feel that having lunch with
you is fundamentally
not worth their time